[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hey there, Polycasters.
Rob here.
Welcome back to the show.
So today, we're
going to be talking
about probably one of the
most requested topics ever,
carbon routing.
So routing itself
is a very big topic.
And what we're
going to be doing is
we're going to break this into
sort of a multipart series.
So today, we'll be covering
kind of the basics of routing.
And then we'll look at things
like lazy loading and data
and showing spinners
and stuff like that,
managing Flash 21 style content.
And also, any
questions or things
like that you want me to cover,
leave them down the comments.
And we'll try and do those in
some of these future episodes.
To start us off, what
we're going to be building
is a simple blog application
that looks like this.
So you can see here that I've
got a few different sections
that I can flip between--
art, film, and photo.
I've got some lovely
nature photography here
that I took off
of the interwebs.
And clicking on any
of these pictures
will then show us
the actual blog post
that we're interested in.
And as we're doing this,
keep an eye on the URL
up here, which is going
to be updating as we go
and as we do our work.
When we're talking
about carbon route,
we need to think of it
as two separate pieces.
The first is this element
called carbon location.
And carbon location's job
is just to watch the URL bar
and either reflect
the state of the URL
or take any changes
from our application
and transfer those
back to the URL.
It does this using its
route property, which
we're going to expose
in our application using
a two-way binding, which we're
also going to call route.
We then couple the
carbon location
with one or more
carbon route elements.
The carbon route elements take
the route from carbon location.
They bind to it using
their own route property.
They define a pattern,
which is sort of the URL
that they're interested in
that they want to match.
So in this case, we're
saying the pattern is slash,
and then we're using
this sort of token syntax
to say anything after slash
we'll refer to as page.
You could also have
a multi-part URL.
So you could say /foo/bar/ colon
some piece of data that you
might be interested in.
Once we have a little
data token here,
we can expose that to the rest
of the app using this data
attribute.
And I'm just going
to call it page data.
So if the user was on a page
called /foo, in this case,
pageData would equal--
I'll write it all out here.
So it'd be pageData.page.
That matches this token right
here that we just named page.
PageData.page equals foo.
I know that this is
good handwriting.
Thank you, whoever was halfway
through typing a YouTube
comment.
I know.
I already know that
it looked really good.
Now, anything after the pattern
that we have not matched
gets exposed to our
application as the tail.
And I'm going to expose
that using this binding
called pageTail.
Now, the idea of a tail
is sort of interesting.
And basically, what
it allows us to do
is kind of break up our URL into
different sort of subsections
that our app cares about.
So I can bind the tail
and sort of pass that
into a child component.
And then that child
component doesn't
have to know anything
else about the URL,
or even the entire rest
of the application.
All it knows or
all it cares about
is that one piece of the
URL that it is scoped to.
So it allows you create these
sort of modular subsections
in your app.
Now, the last thing
I want to mention
is this active attribute.
So we can use this
as kind of a flag
to tell us when our
carbon route is matching.
OK?
Pretty simple.
Now, for the blog app that
we're going to be building,
we need to think a little
bit about the URL structure
that we want to use.
So in that application,
I'm going to start off with
/category.
And that could be
art, film, or photo.
And then, based
on that category,
there's two views
that I could show.
The first would be a list
view of all of the blog posts,
so /art/list.
And then the other one
would be an individual post,
so /art/posts/check out
this rad lion thing.
That's kind of the URL
structure that we're
going to be using for this app.
We're going to have two
views, lists and posts.
So with that in
mind, we're actually
ready to go ahead and just
start writing some code.
So let's go over
and hop into Atom.
So in my index.html, file
I have a blog-app element.
And that's going to contain all
the logic for our application.
Inside a blog-app,
I've gone ahead
and I've imported
carbon location.
I've imported carbon route.
I also pulled in iron selector.
And then I pulled an element
called blogPages, which
we'll talk about in just a sec.
Now, inside my template, I'm
going to go ahead and write out
that carbon location.
I'm going to take its route and
expose that to the application
as a scope variable
called route.
And then I'm going to bind that
to a carbon route instance.
So we'll link these two with
that route scope variable.
And then we're going to say that
we want to match the pattern
of /:category.
We want to expose that data
to our application as category
data.
And lastly, we want
to take the tail.
We want to take everything
after the category,
and we want to expose that to
our app as the category tail.
Now, with this in
place, I can go ahead
and I can actually
write a little menu
whose state will sort of
match whatever my URL is.
So I'm going to use the iron
selector element to do that.
And I'm just going to throw some
anchor tags inside of there.
So I'll say iron-selector.
The selected property will
be categoryData.category.
We'll then say that it should
use attribute for selected.
So we can give a
unique attribute
to all of our menu items
to identify and match
against that category
data property.
So the attribute for selected.
In this case, I'm just
going to make one up.
I'll make up an attribute
called data-page.
And then I'm going to
create three anchors.
I'll duplicate this three times.
The first one will be /art/list,
the second one will be
/film/list, we'll
do /photo/list.
Put the appropriate anchor text
in there, art, film, and photo.
And I'm also going to give
each of these a data page.
So data-page equals
art, film, and photo.
Now, you may have noticed that
I've used hash routing here.
I've got this
little pound symbol
at the beginning of my URLs.
I want to make sure to tell
carbon location to use hash
routing in our application
because at the moment,
I haven't set up a fancy server
for doing any sort of index
redirect or anything like that.
We're just going to go ahead
and use pretty straightforward,
simple hash routing.
Use hash as path.
We'll give that attribute
to carbon location.
And now it knows that
anytime I update the URL,
it should put a
little hash in there.
So with this in place, we may be
ready to go ahead and actually
test our application.
So I'm going to go
over here to Chrome,
and I'm going to
hit the Blog page.
And we're going to see we get
Art, Film, and Photo showing
up.
Those anchor tags are in place.
When I click on
them, you'll notice
that the URL has now updated to
reflect the state-- art, film,
photo.
If I refresh the page,
we see that the state
has been reflected to our menu.
So now that we have our menu
hooked up to our router,
the next thing we
want to do is create
those two views, one for
listing all of our blog posts,
and the other for actually
showing an individual blog
post.
To do that, I will
go back to Atom.
And I'm going to, in my
blog-app application,
create a main element.
And I'm going to add
that blog-pages element
that I showed before that
I had imported there.
And this blog-pages
element is kind
of going to be like a
replacement for iron pages
in our app.
So I'm going to tell it which
category is currently selected.
I'll pass that in as
categoryData.category.
And I'm also going to
tell it the current route.
So I'll just pass that
in as categoryTail.
And this way, blog-pages
doesn't actually
sort of care so much about what
the category URL looks like.
It only cares about everything
that comes after that.
Basically, is this list
view or is this a post view?
Over in our category
pages element,
the first thing I'm going to
do is create two carbon routes
to sort of monitor
list and posts.
So we'll have a
carbon route here.
Its route is just going
to come in as route.
That again gets passed
in by the parent here,
route equals categoryTail.
So that's going to be route.
The pattern that we'll be
matching on this first carbon
route will be /list.
And then the last
thing I want to do
is I want to know, when is
this particular route active?
So I'll say active equals.
I'll create a little scope
variable called listActive.
Similarly, if someone wants
to view an individual post,
we'll do another carbon route.
We'll set that route
equal to the route.
We'll set its pattern equal to
/posts/ and then we're going
to have another token here.
So we're going to
ask for the slug.
Which post slug is the
person looking for?
And again, we'll also say,
what is currently active?
So we'll say is post active?
And lastly, we want to
expose the data for that slug
to the actual post page.
So we'll expose
that as postData.
OK.
So I've got these two
carbon routes now coming
from the tail of
the previous page.
And what I'm going to do is take
a list page element and a post
page element and hook
those up to the routes.
So this part is
pretty straightforward
because, much like
a cooking show,
I've already prepared these
elements ahead of time.
So I can just go ahead and drop
the codes for them in here.
We've got list page, whose
category comes from the parent.
Remember, we took the
category and we passed that
into blog pages.
So that's already
available to us.
And we're going to
set its active state
to the listActive
scope variable.
Similarly, we've got
a post-page element.
Its post is going to come
from that postData.slug token.
And it's also going to have
this little active attribute
to tell us if that
route is matching
and if that page
is active as well.
Now, active, in this case,
this isn't like a fancy thing
that these pages support
or anything like that.
If we actually crack them
open and we look at their CSS,
you can see that we just have a
host selector on each of these.
By default, they're
display none.
And when they have
an active attribute,
they're display block.
So we're just going
to toggle which
one is visible based on which
route is currently active.
Now, inside of these
elements, I'm not really
doing anything too fancy.
I have an iron-ajax tag,
which is set to Auto.
And I'm computing the URL
based on the values that
are passed in.
So on the list page, when
you pass in a category,
we figure out what the URL is
to load some category JSON,
and then we display that in
this little template down here.
Similarly, for the
post page, it's
basically the exact same setup.
I've got an iron-ajax
tag inside of here.
I'm computing the URL based on
the slug that was passed in.
I also have a
little template here
that will show the actual
content for that post.
One thing that I want
to make sure I do
is when the user first comes to
our site, if they just go to /,
I want to redirect
them to a section
so that they see
some initial content.
What I want to do is probably
redirect them to something like
/art/list so they see that
whole list of art blog posts.
So I'll go back to
my blog-app element.
I'm just going to drop
in this attached handler,
where I'm going to say,
if this.route.path is null
or undefined, then set the
route path to /art/list.
So now we sort of see
the two-way nature
of carbon location.
So normally, it passes a
location into the page.
But we can also sort of
imperatively set a location
and pass that back
to the URL bar.
So I think we've got
all of our code here.
We can actually switch over
to Chrome now and preview
this application.
So we go back to Chrome,
refresh the page.
And now we can see we've got
our entire blog listed out here
for us.
If you look at our
initial URL up here,
it's redirected to art/list.
And I can go.
I can change the
different categories
to look at film, photo.
And scrolling
around, I can click
on any of these
different blog posts
and actually see the content
that they're displaying.
So that about
covers it for today.
We've hit on the
basics of carbon route,
but there's still a lot
more to cover, right?
We can talk more about how to
show spinners as we lazy load
data, how we manage
Flash 21 styled content,
how we deal with scroll
position as we change
between the different sections.
So I'll save all of that
for a future episode.
Now, if you yourself, if you
have some questions or things
you want to see as we keep
exploring carbon route,
please leave them for me
down below in the comments.
Or you can ping me on a social
network of your choosing
at #AskPolymer.
As always, thank you
so much for watching
and I'll see you next time.
Do you want me to
tell some bad jokes?
OK.
I've got some bad jokes.
Um.
OK.
[LAUGHTER]
Oh my god.
Um, OK.
OK, unihorse.
What's the difference
between a hippo and a Zippo?
[LAUGHTER]
A Zippo's a little lighter.